# Business-Model-Analysis-Database

My inference for choosing the BI tool is solely based on my experiences working with them during assignment 3 and 4. In my opinion QlikView provides us with set of comprehensive features critical to the BI development world.
QlikView has an option to build the semantic layer which provides BI developers with complete liberty to load the data as required for the reporting. In Tableau, we do not have concept of semantic layer, which is a huge set-back.
Tableau also is not a dependable tool when it comes to accessing databases. While Tableau allows connection to a varied size of databases, however, the authentication challenges are quite off-putting. On the other hand, in QlikView we have the access to all industry-relevant databases which suffices the purpose.
Tableau emerges as the clear winner when it comes to creating attractive dashboards. Tableau has a drag and drop feature which is beginner friendly and hence anyone can create meaningful, business-related dashboards. Tableau also has an inbuilt show-me panel with 24 charts, which auto-highlight based on the data selected. While we can build great dashboards using QlikView, but the process requires intensive training and understanding of SQL.
To conclude, Tableau is a great visualization tool, while QlikView has an associative model and hence holistic approach towards BI solutions. While Tableau can be used by basically anyone and QlikView requires SQL expertise, but the clear lack of sematic layer makes me apprehensive about the former, since as a BI developer, I gauge the importance of having control on the data logic will prove to be crucial.
